# [COMPSCI235] Lab Report 2

## Git
Git is a `Distributed Version Control System - DVCS`

A system to centrally save the history of changes to files in any project.
There are 3 main areas for saving files.
- Working Directory
    - Store all the information required for version changes
- Staging Area
    - `temporarily` store files, and commit them to the repository after confirming that there is no problem.
- Repository
    - Saves all changed files, as well as the history of each version of the project

### Basic Commands
Ther are some basic commands can help doing project as a group.
- `Clone` 
    - download the project from git server
- `Fork` 
    - copy the whole project with all permission, and it belong to you
- `Commit` 
    - record the changes to repository
- `Pull` 
    - fetch and merge the new version from git server
- `Push` 
    - upload the changes to the git server



### Advanced Commands
- `Pull Request` 
    - asks the original project owner to take your changes back and merge them with the original project
- `Merge conflict` 
    - combines the branch into the one 
    - The history of modified content will remain the same, but the merged history will become more `complex`.
- `Rebase`
    - The history of the modified content will be connected to the branch to be merged. The merged history will be *`clearer`* and *`simpler`*, but it will be more *`prone`* to conflicts than using merge.



### **Gitignore**
It creates a special `.gitignore` file in the root directory of the Git workspace, then fill in the filenames to be ignored, and Git will automatically ignore these files.

The type of files will be ignored are:
1. files automatically generated  by the operating system
    - e.g. thumbnails
2. intermediate files, executable files, etc. generated by compilation
    - e.g. `.class` file automatically generated by Java compilation
3. own configuration files with sensitive information
    - e.g. passwords


## Lab Question
1. In a scenario, where you work with others as a team. You wrote some code using the lab machine, but the code isn't working. You decide to continue working on the code from home. What's the best way to commit your unfinished code to GitHub without interrupt others? What commands do you need to achieve that?
    - First, create a new branch with `git branch <branchname>`
    - Then chnage to new branch with `git checkout <branch>`
    - Using ` git add .` to add modified code to staging area
    - Using `git commit -m "comments"` to submit the code with comment 
    - Push the code to the branch `git push origin <branchname>`
    Then keep working on this branch till my code is finished.

2. Explain the difference between merge and fork. Give an example for each use case.
    - `merge` is used to combine the side branches into one main branch
    - `fork` is used to clone the whole project to your repository and it belong to yourself not the project owner. You have the all the permissions of the project by using `fork` command